So let's go ahead and take a look at the project inside of IntelliJ that we brought down from Spring
Initializr.
So I'm going to come in here to IntelliJ and let's come up here we're going to file and I am to say a project
from existing sources. What I've done is I took that zip file. I moved it into a temp folder.
You can put that in a workspace that you're comfortable with.
Here I'm just demonstrating this so we're going to go through and open up the spring5webapp and I'm going
to click on the pom file. And here I am going to say open.
What's happening is IntelliJ is now importing the project. This takes a second. It's going to
go through and scanned the project bring down a dependencies and down on the bottom you'll see some flashing
going by. Let me resize this a little bit.
So now we could see here we had spring5webapp. And let's open up this pom file. So there's a lot
of important things that are happening here.
So the way Maven dependencies are going to work is it's going to inherit from the Spring Boot parent.
Now if I come in and hold down the command key under OSX, I think control for Windows, I could be wrong
on that since I don't normally use Windows, and then click.
This will take us into the Spring Boot Starter parent and you can see here this is setting up a
number of resources for us and different plug ins which we really don't need.
But the more important one is that it's going to come here to Spring Boot Dependencies.
So this is gonna be bringing in a lot of common properties. You can see there's literally hundreds of
versions being maintained for us. So this is what's called curated dependencies.
This all being maintained by the Spring team.
And now you can see this dependency management.
So this is a real quick tip as we're working with Spring Boot when you're bring in dependencies.
These are all curated dependencies. So when we have this in dependency management, if I wanted to
grab this artifact in, I'd just bring in the artifact into my upper level BOM senses in the dependency
management.
And I just include that and then I can omit the release and allow this to manage release. So that's actually
a best practice.
And this is something I talk about more in-depth in my Maven course.
So we really go into this a lot in-depth but just be aware of how we are inheriting dependency information
from the Spring Boot parent pom and the dependencies pom.
So I closed this and take a closer look at what it gave us.
Remember we said we gave it a group I.D. so you can see guru.springframework there.
The artifacts spring5webapp starts off with the version of  0.0.1 snapshot. Name. Remember
I gave it simple application. It looks like a must of misspelled that in the previous video. Oops.
That does happen occasionally.
And you can see properties Java 11.
And now here's our dependency.
So we have a the Spring Boot Starter JPA, Spring Boot Starter Web and then the H2 Database and then
also it brings in the Spring Boot Starter Test.
And this is emitting the Vintage engines.
And so that is something that we're going to need if we want to bring in JUnit 4 test. And here you
can see that Maven changed the pom.
And Maven is asking if I want to import the changes. Those whitespace changed but I'm going to click
on enable auto import just to keep that happy. That you used to be problematic on larger projects.
But it's actually pretty decent to just go ahead and allow it automatically import.
So let's come over here.
I'm going to expand out this Maven tab. And now we can see here's our Spring Boot app and I want look
at these dependencies.
So let's take a look at the Spring Boot Starter Web.
And here you can see it's bringing us the Spring Boot Starter that has dependencies so you can see here.
So you have Spring Boot that's bringing Spring Core.
So all this stuff, you use to go out and figure out what dependencies you need to include in your project
to get a functional Spring application.
So these are all common sense stuff that we can bring in. If we wanted to omit one, we can say excludes.
but so far we're going to not be doing that specifically.
And so that was the Spring Boot Starter Web.
Here's the Spring Boot Startup Data. This brings in AOP, JDBC., Jakarta Persistence, Hibernate.
So bringing that version of Hibernate. Spring Data JPA. So you can see that's the Spring and a variety of stuff.
And sometimes they do duplicate the dependencies because you don't always use these together.
So the Spring Boot Starter has dependencies saying hey I need this.
And when you see omitted for duplicate that means that another dependency is asked for the same one.
So let's collapse that. And then the other thing we want take a look at is the Spring Boot Test. So
you can see here this is bringing in a number of things for testing.
So I have entire course on testing Spring Boot.
We look at this a lot closer but these are a lot of testing tools and we get these included in our project
for free.
So we get like Mockito and Hamcrest Matchers, AssertJ.
That's some really cool stuff.
And of course JUnit as well.
So clear. The way
Spring Boot and Spring Initializr are set up these initials dependencies is very important because we're
going to be relying on these libraries for our project.
So let's go ahead and collapse the Maven tab now and let's take a look at what we got for source
code.
So under source main Java. Let me change this property here. That just compacts middle packages so don't have to
click through everything.
So here's the main class.
This is the main Spring Boot application. So remember every Java application has a main class so this
is our entry point.
And this is just going to start up a Spring Boot Web Application.
So we will get into this in a lot more detail.
But standard Java main class.
And then finally here if I go into test we also get a Spring Boot Test.
So this is a very simple JUnit 5 test.
And what this is going to do is bring up the Spring Context.
Again, that's a new term. We will be looking at that in upcoming lessons in the course.
But the primary thing is it provides us a application, a main class and then a test.
And that's going to make sure that context actually does load the Spring Context.
So very very simple but a very simple starting point for us to start developing from.
And then finally here this Help. Help.md
This is markdown document. You can see here.
This is going to have additional content and that's something that Spring just recently started doing so
when you go through and generate a project with Spring Initializr, it generates the links to help
documentation for the projects and
the spring boot starters that you selected inside your view course. A pretty cool little feature. Handy. If you need
to go in and look up something quickly for the documentation.
And then finally one other thing that does include is gitignore.
I personally have my own favorite gitignore files and you'll see me using those on upcoming projects.
So I think this is a nice little starter but you can definitely expand upon the gitignore so you don't
get things that you don't want included into your GitHub repositories.
Always helpful to have that within your code base.
And then finally these two files here.
And that's part of the Maven wrapper.
And here's the magic source behind the Maven wrapper.
As you can see this is really I can't under emphasize enough how much of a time saver this is because
I remember setting up Spring projects, you'd start off writing this this pom, start researching which
dependencies you'd have to bring in.
You didn't have this one handy dependency that would bring everything in that you need for a web application.
You'd have to go out and find out oh I need Spring MVC, Oh I need Spring AOP. I'm doing data. I need
JPA. I need the transaction jars. So a lot of different libraries that this really takes a lot of work
from you that you don't have to worry about. And then also I remember going to have to
type out, creare a directory source, create a directly main, create directory Java.
So this is all time saving stuff that we get for free by using the Spring Initializr.